---
geometry: "margin=2cm"
---

# AE567 Final Project Proposal

# Akshat Dubey

### 1 What is the problem that you are considering? Please be clear here, if you propose to perform inference for some system, please provide the equations.

The problem in consideration is one which I have personally experienced in my past work as an engineer building a terrestrial laser communication system. The key goal of the product was to point a laser very accurately, within 0.005 degrees to another laser terminal while remaining stable to enable robust communication. While manufacturing the system, there were always inconsistencies in the assembly and tolerance of parts, which led to variations in the system dynamics between units of the communication system. In addition, if not shipped with care, the dynamics could change between factory and deployment due to mechanical stresses. While the existing control scheme was able to stabilize the system, I was always curious about the possibility of estimating the system dynamics in real-time to improve the control performance.

### 2 What algorithms/methods from class will you consider. If they do not precisely match what we covered in class, this is perfectly fine. In this case, please describe why you chose that algorithm.

I will be considering join state and parameter estimation algorithms, which will be taught in class in the coming weeks. While they have not been taught, I will be reviewing the following papers to understand the joint state and parameter estimation problem better:

- "Joint Parameter and State Estimation of Noisy Discrete-Time Nonlinear Systems: A Supervisory Multi-Observer Approach" by T.J. Meijer, V.S. Dolk ([link](https://arxiv.org/abs/2109.12450))
- "Joint estimation of states and parameters of vehicle model using cubature Kalman filter" by Yan Sun, Qijun Chen ([link](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7844368))
- "Joint state and parameter estimation of quadrotor based on extended Kalman filter and complementary filter" by Wojciech Janusz, Michał Niezabitowski ([link](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7501108))

The algorithms in consideration are the extended Kalman filter, particle filter and the cubature Kalman filter. I feel these algorithms are appropriate since we have used them in class for both state and parameter estimations and I think I understand them well enough to implement them.

### 3 What are the models/data sources that you will use for your problem. Are they synthetically generated (in which case provide the setup), are they from an experiment that you have run, which papers will you review (in the case of literature review) ?

In this project I will be assuming a simple gimbal to stabilize the laser. Specifically, a nonlinear 2-D gimbal that is linearized around a reference point that I set to $(0,0)$. I have chosen this since during operation, the system only operates within a tight window of 0.5 degrees and this estimation would have to run efficiently on a microcontroller in real-time. The equations for the gimbal dynamics will be taken from a masters thesis "Detailed Modeling and Control of a 2-DOF Gimbal System" by by Erhan Poyrazoglu ([link](https://etd.lib.metu.edu.tr/upload/12620689/index.pdf)) pages 41-43.

For sensors, I will use 2 sensors per DOF, a position and an angular rate sensor. The position sensor will update at 1kHz with noise $\sim \mathcal{N}(0,0.01)$, the angular rate sensor will update at 4kHz with noise $\sim \mathcal{N}(0,0.06)$. The sensors are chosen this way to emulate the most basic sensors available for this application along with some realistic noise levels based on hardware datasheets.

The data will be synthetically generated by propagating the system dynamics using the same setup as we used in Project 2b. I will then add process noise to the measurements to simulate the real-world disturbances like vibrations coming from the tower the system is mounted on moving due to wind and birds landing on it.

### 4 What do you hope to learn from this project? What is the thesis that you will be testing?

- Joint parameter and state estimation for linearized nonlinear systems.
- The effect of process and measurement noise on the estimation performance.
- Tradeoff between sensor update rates and sensor noise on the estimation performance.
  - This is important in practice for choosing the right sensor hardware and digital filters for the application.
